


                                                          26 Balfour St.
                                                          Wellington 2.
                                                          18 August 1988
      
     To - The Directors,
     Sanders Johnson Smith Ltd.
      
     IReply to Your Memorandum dated 16 August.4J
      
     The memorandum, with Ross's note was found on my desk  on  arrival  at
     work  on 17 August.  As no move was made to discuss this at the end of
     the day when staff had departed and  both  signatories  were  present,
     Ross  departing  without  a  word,  I took the matters up briefly with
     Graham.

     The memorandum is styled as  as  a  record  of  a  discussion  but  no
     discussion  was held.  As a matter of detail I was working on computer
     file recovery (Kermit) on the PDP11/40 at Bruce Avenue that day, which
     whereabouts  were  advised  to  Pamela  by  phone.   No  intimation of
     intention to have a discussion had been given.  The memorandum is  not
     a  record  of a discussion and contains statements and inferences that
     cannot be let stand without reply.

     ITimekeepingJ

     I do not set out to carry out my duties outside  normal  office  hours
     without good reason.  Such reasons have been:
     - the need to expedite work which cannot
        otherwise be completed in the time available.
     - the need to make up time for any absences necessitated during
        working hours by the occasional private appointment or domestic
        exigency.
     - Computer software work or maintenance where this would otherwise
        conflict with other users.
     - Specific calls by directors or clients.

     As is the practice, I have recorded absences apart from the occasional
     10 minute sortie such as to move a vehicle which I have told the front
     office.  When I have omitted  to  make  an  entry  for  the  following
     morning,   or  changed  plans,  I  have  rung  the  office  to  advise
     whereabouts and intended time of return to the office.  If the work is
     taking  longer  than  expected,  but  I am able to be contacted I have
     sometimes postponed advice  of  a  new  return  time  because  of  the
     uncertainty of the proceedings.

     In particular I wish to point out that my conscience is clear  on  the
     matter of timekeeping:
     - I have not cheated the firm of my time.
     - I have rarely taken sick leave.
     - I have sometimes personally written off additional time spent on
        office work without timesheet entry where I have felt that it was
        either small (less than 5 hours a week) or it was not chargeable
        (eg CN200) or was motivated by personal interest.



     Again in line with observed practice  I  have  not  always  spelt  out
     private  destinations  which as a matter of personal privacy ought not
     to be detailed in a reception book.  Such absences are infrequent  and
     I expect this need to be respected.

     I note the request to tighten up on absence book keeping and  will  do
     so  noting  that  recent  experience with the moving of the office and
     computer file recovery off-site has been unpredictable and not  always
     recorded accurately in the book.

     My time recording has been based on a diary record of daily  work  and
     events  which  has  admittedly  been  translated  into  time sheets on
     monthly demand rather than a daily basis.  I acknowledge  the  request
     to furnish time sheets weekly and will comply.

     IProductivityJ

     I have been concerned for some time that I have  been  receiving  only
     small unprofitable jobs to do, including technically demanding ones of
     low fee  expectations.   In  particular  I  have  been  isolated  from
     building  services  work  not only by diversion to more technical work
     but also by a failure to be invited to meet suppliers agents when they
     call,  which  has  made  it  more  difficult  for  me  to  respond  as
     confidently in building services design as I would like, through being
     less  au fait with the trades.  I have voiced these concerns to Graham
     in the past but  with  little  success  and  on  the  other  hand,  no
     reference to the reluctance or causes you claim in your memorandum.

     When I asked Graham which firm was referred to in the  statement  "...
     late  delivery  of documentation on past projects has contributed to a
     loss of confidence in  the  firm  by  at  least  one  client  who  has
     subsequently  taken  his  work  elsewhere"  he stated that he "was not
     aware of this but thought it might have been Stapleton's".  As I  last
     completed  work  for  Stapleton and Associates over two years ago I am
     surprised to be advised of this only now and suspect that  it  is  not
     too  soundly  based.   I  trust that my "attention to detail" vilified
     later has never been a contributor to any such lack of confidence.

     I deny the charge that I am  unable  or  reluctant  to  recognise  the
     commercial  (profit  motivated) nature of the firm's business.  I have
     always been keen to find out the fee constraints of jobs and  to  bear
     these  in  mind  in  the  execution  of the work.   I requested that a
     reporting facility  for  this  purpose  be  included in the accounting
     system software  when  this  was being designed but was told that this
     was a low priority.  Low expectations of profitability in general have
     sometimes been communicated. It is a fact that I have made pleas to be
     allocated  profitable  building services  work  and have received  the
     message "Well, we know the project you are working on is  unprofitable
     but  we  haven't any suitable building services work for you to do, we
     pay your salary, you might as



     well  continue with what you are doing, we feel your special abilities
     are an asset to the firm."

     I resent the "backroom boffin" stereotype implied which is not  sought
     by me  but appears to appeal to the prejudices of some  directors  who
     foster this image.

     The national award that I received for lighting design  (which  design
     received  beforehand  derogatory  remarks  and  subsequently  the most
     perfunctory  acknowledgement  from  that  quarter)  generated   client
     satisfaction  and  professional interest as a result of that attention
     to detail, arguably contributing to  the  introduction  of  Government
     Property  Services  as  a  client  (refer  copy  of  property  manager
     Carruthers' letter enclosed) without whom I suspect we would be not be
     in  business.   I  recognised  fully the advertising potential of that
     design opportunity and exploited it knowing that it was a detail of  a
     large project worthy of extra effort.  That project was the last large
     building services design I was assigned, predating as it did  Graham's
     entry to the firm.

     ICar ExpensesJ

     I honestly believed and maintain that  I  was  told  that  the  annual
     allowance  was initially $2400 which sum bears a numerical resemblance
     to the $1200 figure stated.  No written confirmation of the amount was
     given.   I  knew  that  the first part-year to 31 March would be for a
     reduced amount pro rata.  When at the end of the  first  full  year  I
     commented that I could have exceeded my $2400 allowance I was told not
     to worry, that it would be sorted out in due course.  From the  middle
     of 1987  I  postponed  wear maintenance on account of the state of the
     firm's finances, and on making a claim for minor maintenance  expenses
     in  March  1988 was told that my allowance was badly overspent.  I was
     told that the allowance was lower than I had understood but there  was
     uncertainty as to what it had been.

     I have not previously been presented with any account for overexpended
     allowance.  Nevertheless I shall settle this promptly.


     Your memorandum, coming as it does after nine  and  a  half  years  of
     service  to  this firm is an indictment of the management particularly
     in communication as exemplified by the failure to notify employees  of
     the  stopping of the life insurance scheme once provided as a benefit,
     with recent bitter result.  I trust that  we  can  all  do  better  in
     future.  I am willing and fully intend to play my part.

                                        Yours faithfully


                                        Stuart A. Gordon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              