.Comment COMPAG manual 14-Aug-81
.comment C G Wilson, 71 Galatea St, Charleville 4470, Australia.
.nhd
.nf
.Title COMPAG Manual
.ps,60
.fg 4
.c;COMPAG
.C;------
.S 2
.C;V4
.S
.C;A Page Combining Utility
.s
.c;Manual Edition 3
.c;14-Aug-81
.s
.c;C G Wilson, 71 Galatea St, Charleville 4470, Australia.
.s 3
.f
COMPAG provides the ability to easily combine pages so they may be spread
across a printer form rather than taking up a page each.  It can cope with
up to 8 columns within the output page, the size of each column being
determined by the width of that page.  Alternatively a series of left margins
may be specified, one for each column in sequence.
.s
Tab conversion is usually performed on the output file, to reduce size.
This uses the DIGITAL standard for hardware tabs.  Underscoring in the
input file will be retained in the output.
.s
There is no provision for resequencing a file in a manner suitable for
booklet production.  This must be performed (eg by a TECO macro) before
applying COMPAG.
.s
COMPAG requires the file I/O utility IO.MAC (also provided on this
distribution disc), and may use the file KEV11.MAC for assembly for a
system with a KEV11 extended arithmetic option.
.Header Mixed
.Page
.hl 1;Using COMPAG:
Compag is run by typing
.s
.ts 10
	.R COMPAG
.br
	*
.s
It expects a standard RT-11 CSI command line in reply - viz.
.s
####<output#file>/switches=<input#file>[,<input#file>...]
.s
The default input extension is .DOC, and the default output extension is .LST.
Multiple input files are read as though they were one contiguous file.
.hl 1;What it does:
Input data is read and organized into pages.  A page is terminated either
on receipt of a form-feed character or when the number of lines read in is
sufficient to fill the length of the page (see /P switch).  The input
lines are organized into a multi-column page for output.  The first page
usually starts at column 0, then the second page further across the page
horizontally, and so on until the specified number of columns has been
filled.  Then that page is written and the next one set up.
Thus, to get a copy of this manual with two pages on each printer page
type:
.nf
.s
	.RUN RUNOFF COMPAG COMPAG
	.RUN COMPAG
	*COMPAG=COMPAG
	*
.S
.F
This will produce COMPAG.LST in the desired format, for a 60 line by 132
column printer page.
.hl 1;Switches:
Switches may be appended to either the output file or any of the input files.
.hl 2;/H - help
This switch causes printing of a list of available switches and their actions.
Anything else on the command line is not used.
.hl 2;/W[:n] - set page width
This switch sets the number of columns available in the output format.  The
default value is 132, and if /W is specified without a value, 120.
This width is used for calculating the spread of the columns - for example
with a 132 column page the first section will start at column 0 and the second
(if two only are desired) will start on column 71.  With a 120 character page
the second section will start on column 65.
.hl 2;/P[:n] - set page length
This sets the number of lines available in each output page.  The default
value is 60, but becomes 46 (suitable for a teletype model 43) if /P is
specified without a value.
.hl 2;/B - ignore all leading blank lines
Compag is designed to be used with RUNOFF.  Runoff has a nasty habit of
leaving stray line-feeds at the start of each page.  Generally Compag will
ignore this line but allow other blank lines at the start of a page.
If /B is specified, any blank lines at the start of any page will be
ignored.
.hl 2;/N - ignore no blank lines
(See discussion re /B) - If /N is specified any blank lines at the start of a
page will be included in the output page.
.hl 2;/T - utilize VT100 132-column mode
This switch assumes the user is using a VT100 terminal, and is usually used
when output is to be directed to that terminal.  Before processing the file
it sends the codes to set the VT100 into 132 column mode, and after processing
switches to 80 column mode.
.hl 2;/C:n - number of columns for output format
The default number of columns is 2.  Up to 8 columns may be specified.
The width of each column depends on the number of columns desired
and the width of the printer page.  The number of spaces left between
columns depends on the number of columns specified.
.s
.ts 10,30
.nf
	Number of	Inter-column
	Columns	Gap
.s
	2	12
	3	10
	4 or 5	8
	6 to 8	6
.s
.f
It should be noted that there is no checking of the number of columns in the
input data.  Should this exceed the size of the column into which it is being
formatted, it simply continues across the page where it may be written over
by the next column, or wraps around to the next line if it passes the right
hand margin.
.hl 2;/L:n[:n,...] - specify left margins
This switch allows the user to override the automatic determination of
column positions by actually specifying where he wants the margin to be
for each column.  The first column of a page is column 0.
The values need not be in ascending order - if you particularly need to
set columns up from right to left it will work in this manner, or if you
have a basic form in one file into which you wish to insert various
different data available in other files but with the same left hand
margin, then /L:0:0 may be helpful.
.hl 2;/F - force full output
Normally tab conversion is done on the output, utilizing the Digital hardware
standard (columns 8, 16, 24, ...).  Should it be desired to leave the output
with multiple spaces, use the /F switch in the command line.
.hl 2;/J - join pages
Use of this switch inhibits insertion of form-feed characters between
pages.  (This was included to allow tab conversion without pagination
using switches /J/L:0 on files containing many spaces but no form feeds!)
.hl 1;Underscoring:
The underscore character ("__", ascii 137) is recognized, and characters
underscored (either by an overprinted line or by the use of backspaces)
in the input will remain underscored (by use of an overprinting line) in
the output.  An underscore alone will, however, be printed as a single
character rather than on its own special line.
