									COMPAG Manual					      Page 2


			   COMPAG
			   ------					1.0  Using COMPAG:

									Compag is run by typing
			     V4
										  .R COMPAG
		  A Page Combining Utility					  *

		      Manual Edition 3					It expects a standard RT-11 CSI command line in reply - viz.
			 14-Aug-81
									    <output file>/switches=<input file>[,<input file>...]
  C G Wilson, 71 Galatea St, Charleville 4470, Australia.
									The default input extension is .DOC, and the default  output
									extension  is .LST.  Multiple input files are read as though
									they were one contiguous file.
COMPAG provides the ability to easily combine pages so	they
may  be spread across a printer form rather than taking up a
page each.  It can cope with up  to  8	columns  within  the
output page, the size of each column being determined by the		2.0  What it does:
width of that page.  Alternatively a series of left  margins
may be specified, one for each column in sequence.			Input data is read and organized  into	pages.	 A  page  is
									terminated  either  on	receipt  of a form-feed character or
Tab conversion is usually performed on the output  file,  to		when the number of lines read in is sufficient to  fill  the
reduce	size.	This  uses the DIGITAL standard for hardware		length	of  the  page  (see /P switch).  The input lines are
tabs.  Underscoring in the input file will  be	retained  in		organized into a multi-column page for	output.   The  first
the output.								page  usually  starts  at  column  0,  then  the second page
									further across the page horizontally, and so  on  until  the
There is no provision for resequencing a file  in  a  manner		specified number of columns has been filled.  Then that page
suitable for booklet production.  This must be performed (eg		is written and the next one set up.  Thus, to get a copy  of
by a TECO macro) before applying COMPAG.				this manual with two pages on each printer page type:

COMPAG requires the file I/O utility IO.MAC  (also  provided			  .RUN RUNOFF COMPAG COMPAG
on  this  distribution disc), and may use the file KEV11.MAC			  .RUN COMPAG
for assembly for a system with a KEV11	extended  arithmetic			  *COMPAG=COMPAG
option. 									  *

									This will produce COMPAG.LST in the desired format, for a 60
									line by 132 column printer page.



									3.0  Switches:

									Switches may be appended to either the output file or any of
									the input files.



									3.1  /H - help

									This switch causes printing of a list of available  switches
									and their actions.  Anything else on the command line is not
									used.

COMPAG Manual					      Page 3		COMPAG Manual					      Page 4



3.2  /W[:n] - set page width						3.7  /C:n - number of columns for output format

This switch sets the number  of  columns  available  in  the		The default number of columns is 2.  Up to 8 columns may  be
output	format.   The  default	value  is  132, and if /W is		specified.   The  width of each column depends on the number
specified without a value, 120.   This	width  is  used  for		of columns desired and the width of the printer  page.	 The
calculating  the  spread of the columns - for example with a		number	of spaces left between columns depends on the number
132 column page the first section will start at column 0 and		of columns specified.
the  second  (if  two only are desired) will start on column
71.  With a 120 character page the second section will start			  Number of	      Inter-column
on column 65.									  Columns	      Gap

										  2		      12
										  3		      10
3.3  /P[:n] - set page length							  4 or 5	      8
										  6 to 8	      6
This sets the number of lines available in each output page.
The  default  value  is  60,  but becomes 46 (suitable for a		It should be noted that there is no checking of  the  number
teletype model 43) if /P is specified without a value.			of  columns  in the input data.  Should this exceed the size
									of the column into which it is being  formatted,  it  simply
									continues  across  the	page where it may be written over by
									the next column, or wraps around to  the  next	line  if  it
3.4  /B - ignore all leading blank lines				passes the right hand margin.

Compag is designed to be used with  RUNOFF.   Runoff  has  a
nasty habit of leaving stray line-feeds at the start of each
page.  Generally Compag will  ignore  this  line  but  allow		3.8  /L:n[:n,...] - specify left margins
other  blank  lines  at  the  start  of  a  page.   If /B is
specified, any blank lines at the start of any page will  be		This switch  allows  the  user	to  override  the  automatic
ignored.								determination  of  column  positions  by actually specifying
									where he wants the margin to be for each column.  The  first
									column	of  a  page  is column 0.  The values need not be in
									ascending order - if you particularly need to set columns up
3.5  /N - ignore no blank lines 					from  right  to  left it will work in this manner, or if you
									have a basic form in one file into which you wish to  insert
(See discussion re /B) - If /N is specified any blank  lines		various different data available in other files but with the
at the start of a page will be included in the output page.		same left hand margin, then /L:0:0 may be helpful.



3.6  /T - utilize VT100 132-column mode 				3.9  /F - force full output

This switch assumes the user is using a VT100 terminal,  and		Normally tab conversion is done on the output, utilizing the
is  usually  used  when  output  is  to  be directed to that		Digital  hardware standard (columns 8, 16, 24, ...).  Should
terminal.  Before processing the file it sends the codes  to		it be desired to leave the output with multiple spaces,  use
set  the  VT100  into  132 column mode, and after processing		the /F switch in the command line.
switches to 80 column mode.


									3.10  /J - join pages

									Use  of  this  switch  inhibits   insertion   of   form-feed
									characters  between  pages.  (This was included to allow tab
									conversion without pagination using switches /J/L:0 on files

COMPAG Manual					      Page 5



containing many spaces but no form feeds!)



4.0  Underscoring:

The underscore character ("", ascii 137) is recognized, and
characters  underscored (either by an overprinted line or by
the use of backspaces) in the input will remain  underscored
(by  use  of  an  overprinting	line)  in  the	output.   An
underscore alone will,	however,  be  printed  as  a  single
character rather than on its own special line.

